Acer’s Swift 7 13.3-inch laptop is less than 1cm thick and offers up to 9 hours of battery life. Acer’s new Swift series of ultra-thin notebooks are now available in South Africa, including the Swift 7, Swift 5, Swift 3, and Swift 1. The Swift 7 weighs 1.1kg and is a 9.98mm thick – making it the world’s thinnest laptop*. The laptop features a Corning Gorilla Glass 13.3-inch Full HD IPS display, 7th Generation Intel Core i5 processor, 256GB SSD, and up to 8GB of RAM. It also offers Wi-Fi connectivity and dual USB 3.1 Type-C ports and up to 3X3 faster wireless performance than before with 2×2 802.11ac with MU-MIMO technology. The Swift 7 leads the trend in style with a gold inner surface, a matte black aluminium exterior, rounded corners and chamfered edges, which gives it a stylish modern look. Dolby Audio™ Premium and Acer TrueHarmony™ work together to offer clear and bold virtual surround sound. It has also been honoured at the 2016 edition of Japan’s Good Design Award, standing out from over 4,000 entries. Judges said that the Acer Swift 7 strikes an appropriate balance between thinness and functionality. “The streamlined shape of the PC, which is less than 1 cm thick, makes it look visually thinner than it actually is, and the product generally has a robust yet elaborate image due to its use of cut and moulded aluminium alloy as a material,” they said. “Furthermore, despite its thickness, it provides a favourable touch button, and the use of a large touch panel achieves both a beautiful design and ease of use.” The Acer Swift 7 is available in South Africa for R24,999 from leading local retailers. The laptop’s basic specifications are detailed in the table below. For more information, visit the Acer website. *Based on Acer’s internal survey as of August 31, 2016 of competitors shipping > 1 million units worldwide annually with clamshell design. Windows or OSX, measured at z-height, Intel Core i-processor, non-detachable keyboard. This article was published in partnership with Acer.