2016 has been a busy but successful year for Sintrex, cultivating excellence, partnership and fun with both clients and staff members. Sintrex is an Infrastructure Management Company based in South Africa and is passionate about the innovative pursuit of excellence in providing end-to-end IT solutions and services. Over the course of 2016, Sintrex’s motivated, credible and attentive team delivered credible and consistent IT services and solutions to clients. These hard, long hours were balanced over the year with casual customer interactions, fun staff events, and fundraising initiatives. “As the year ends, we want to thank our staff for their hard work and our clients for their support,” Sintrex said. “We wish everyone a wonderful festive season, and look forward to another great year ahead.” Here is a look at some of the things Sintrex was involved in during 2016.  In January, Sintrex partnered with JacarandaFM for a massive charity project, where Sintrex contributed by assisting in packing and supplying plastic wrap.  In April, Sintrex staff members took part in the Impi Challenge – a muddy obstacle trail run.  In April, Sintrex also sponsored the West Rand Open 2016 squash tournament.  Sintrex hosted the Midrand New Office Wetting celebrations with 50 clients in attendance and awards given out for those helping to get the office ship shape.  In August, Sintrex kicked off the MS awareness tour at its Cape Town office, the start of a fundraising campaign for people living with Multiple Sclerosis.  Between August and September, Sintrex staff member Johann Nothnagel, who has Multiple Sclerosis (MS), toured 4400km to raise money and awareness of MS in South Africa. Sintrex has worked with the Western Cape Government for many years and got high praise from the chief in charge, Lance Williams, regarding the partnership and what it means for his team.  In November, Sintrex spoiled Cape Town customers with a spit braai.  Sintrex has had a long standing partnership with IXIA, who exhibited at the AfricaCom conference in Cape Town in November.  In November, Sintrex was awarded Supplier of the Year in the Information Management category at the 2016 Kaap Agri Awards. For more information, visit the Sintrex website. This article was published in partnership with Sintrex.