Culture and technology… They don’t immediately seem like a natural match, but at SEACOM they go together perfectly. ¨We pride ourselves on maintaining a corporate culture that matches the quality of our technology, and drives excellence in everything we do,” SEACOM said. “Simply put, we credit our organisational values as much as our work, for helping us to get to where we are today.” Here are just a few of the most important values SEACOM upholds: Becoming leaders in the industry wouldn’t have been possible without strong organisational leadership from within. SEACOM’s executive team may be small, but they, like all SEACOM employees, are specialists in their field and bold thinkers. “We pride ourselves in fostering a culture of innovation, collaboration and creativity in everything we do,” SEACOM said. It is these qualities that have enabled SEACOM to (sometimes literally) go where nobody has gone before, and develop unique solutions to Africa’s ICT challenges. The team at SEACOM pride themselves on understanding customer requirements and challenges in today’s evolving world of Internet and Cloud-based services. SEACOM designs solutions and products that not only address customer needs but also do so without comprising quality or breaking their budgets. Since launching SEACOM’s corporate market offerings, the feedback from customers and partners has been phenomenal and extremely positive, as they break away from their traditional service providers. “It is our belief that the next generation of voice, data and video is here, and that Africa needs only the opportunity to make these digital tools work for them,” SEACOM said. “The commitment from our side will always be to innovate and embrace technology that ensures this happens more quickly.” The SEACOM network has forever altered Africa’s ICT landscape for the better, and SEACOM plans to continue evolving its core infrastructure in order to lead Africa into the next stage of ICT growth, and all the benefits that accompany such growth. Years of experience have equipped the SEACOM team with the know-how to develop and maintain a world-class network that offers users throughout Africa the best possible broadband experience. SEACOM is determined to provide a world-class level of customer service to enable customers to realise the intrinsic value of these services. SEACOM’s roots are, and always will be, in Africa. So it’s no surprise that SEACOM is passionately active in local communities, always on the lookout for an opportunity to give something back to the continent that has nurtured SEACOM into the business it is today. From sending a team up Mount Kilimanjaro to donating medical equipment to nurses in need, SEACOM’s CSR initiatives are a central part of its organisation – that’s what Ubuntu is all about. To find out more about SEACOM’s CSR initiatives, click here. This article was published in partnership with SEACOM.