Former SABC CEO Lulama Mokhobo received threats before giving testimony at Parliament’s ad hoc committee looking into the public broadcaster’s board, she has said. During her hour-long testimony on Thursday, she indicated that there was certain information she did not want to divulge, as she was receiving threats. She did not elaborate. The committee is conducting an inquiry into the SABC board’s fitness to hold office. Democratic Alliance MP Phumzile van Damme asked her if the threats were coming from people currently at the SABC, or former employees. She did not want to say, and the committee moved on to other questions. Chairperson Vincent Smith said he would discuss the possibility of Mokhobo’s giving testimony in camera with her afterward. On Friday, the ad hoc committee considered Mokhobo’s proposal of giving specific testimony in camera. Smith said that after giving the matter much thought overnight, he was concerned about having some testimony behind closed doors. Despite the nature of the testimony that could be revealed, he said it was better that Parliament conducted its business transparently, as prescribed by the Constitution. It would not be fair on the previous five witnesses for future sessions to be held in camera, he said. He however stressed the need to protect Mokhobo from threats. MPs were asked to reach a consensus, and they agreed with Smith. They said witnesses should be protected as well. “We must send a very strong message to whomever threatened Ms Mokhobo,” Economic Freedom Fighters MP Fana Mokoena said. African National Congress MP Jabu Mahlangu said the committee should help Mokhobo lay charges with the police and ensure she got protection. No testimony would be conducted in camera, the committee resolved. The matter of helping witnesses would be discussed separate to the hearings. Communications Minister Faith Muthambi acted unlawfully when she amended the SABC board’s memorandum of incorporation (MOI), former board member Krish Naidoo has testified. Naidoo, who resigned from the board publicly on October 5, was testifying under oath before Parliament’s ad hoc committee looking into the fitness of the SABC board on Friday. He affirmed what former colleague Vusi Mavuso testified on Thursday, that Muthambi had amended the memorandum in October 2014 to take group executive appointments from the board’s oversight, and had given it to the three chief executives. “The problem with the MOI is that it was done in contravention of the Broadcasting Act and to some extent the Constitution,” he told MPs. The amendment needed the signatures of all the board members, but was only signed by Muthambi. He said there was a large turnover of executive staff following Muthambi’s amendment in October 2014. “You’d turn up to board meetings and find all these new people there, and ask what happened to Joe Soap of this position?” The board had no say, from then onward, with regard to group executive appointments, and was just informed of the decisions. He said the problem was that acting officials were holding very senior positions. Naidoo said three former board members were illegally ejected from the board following their disapproval of Hlaudi Motsoeneng’s permanent appointment as chief operating officer in July 2014. They received no help from the portfolio committee of communications at the time, he said. He described the way the board had also, unsuccessfully, tried to get rid of him. Board chairperson Mbulaheni Maguvhe, in a board meeting in 2014, warned him that his behaviour had become “worrisome” and that he was being disruptive in meetings. Naidoo threatened to resign in the meeting. Maguvhe phoned him later and said he was an asset and “shouldn’t dare think of resigning”. The next day, he received a letter from Muthambi, citing Naidoo’s alleged behaviour as an issue. He replied and said the minister’s actions boarded on illegality. “In short, I asked the honourable minister to reconsider her action. I haven’t heard from her again.” MPs asked him what he thought a minister’s role should be at the public broadcaster. “The role of the minister should be one of political oversight. I just think she came to close to the action at the SABC.” News24