The State Security Agency investigated certain SABC staff members after they allegedly leaked information about the public broadcaster, a parliamentary inquiry heard on Monday. Former SABC general manager of labour relations Madiwe Nkosi told the ad hoc committee looking into the broadcaster’s board that the State Security Agency was asked to investigate former group executive of risk and governance, Itani Tseisi, for allegedly having leaked information. Tseisi testified before the committee on Friday. The broadcaster suspended him in May 2014, for opposing key appointments and abuse of procedures. He returned in September 2016, but then left permanently in October. “I basically learnt he had been cleared of the allegations, but there was very serious discomfort about him having to come back. They said he was a risk, so he can’t come back,” Nkosi said. She said she didn’t know if the SSA’s involvement was “forgotten” or deliberately kept from her, but she said it had been downplayed. Both ACDP MP Steve Swart and DA MP Phumzile van Damme registered their shock at hearing that the SSA was involved in an investigation of an SABC staff member. ANC MP Hlomane Chauke said it was worrying. “At some point the minister of state security will have to explain this thing,” Chauke said. Van Damme asked if the SSA’s involvement had affected staff morale at the SABC. “Yes. Particularly in the past year, this year, there was an atmosphere of paranoia,” Nkosi replied. “Even when colleagues were talking, they would look around and find out who is listening in on their conversations.” She said people would get the feeling that the SSA was acting on behalf of current group executive for corporate affairs and former COO, Hlaudi Motsoeneng. She didn’t understand why the SSA was called in when the SABC had an investigating unit. “We have an internal audit committee who handles forensics. Those are the people who would investigate our internal cases.” In August 2015, the SSA was accused of conducting a “secret operation” at the SABC’s Durban offices. SSA spokesperson Brian Dube said the allegation came from staff, and that the agency was often asked to assist government departments and entities with investigations. Nkosi said that over her five years at the broadcaster, her duties were increasingly delegated to the company’s legal team, after she questioned and refused many of Motsoeneng’s decisions. She said it was made clear to her that she was becoming an irritation to the powers that be, and her resignation in September 2016 “fell on very fertile soil”. The only place left for former SABC COO Hlaudi Motsoeneng is jail, said DA leader Mmusi Maimane after the party won its application to have his appointment as group executive of corporate affairs declared unlawful. “I’m delighted and I think justice has been served today,” said Maimane after the Western Cape High Court in Cape Town said Motsoeneng could not hold any position at the broadcaster unless a Public Protector’s 2014 report on his appointment as COO is overturned and a new disciplinary inquiry clears him. “I think Hlaudi Motsoeneng should not be working at the SABC,” said Maimane after shaking hands with advocate Anton Katz SC who led the Democratic Alliance’s attack on Motsoeneng’s appointment. The court set aside the findings of a disciplinary committee that acquitted Motsoeneng on allegations emanating from the Public Protector’s report. These included that he could not produce the matric certificate he claimed to have and that he allegedly illegally awarded himself salary increases among other complaints. It ordered that a new disciplinary inquiry be held and set strict timelines. After losing a court appeal to a previous DA application setting aside his appointment as COO, Motsoeneng was appointed group executive for corporate affairs. The court declared that appointment invalid and unconstitutional. Motsoeneng also has to pay costs. “I welcome the judgment and I am glad he has to pay costs personally. He must stop wasting tax payer’s money on his personal litigation. “His next move is to go to jail,” said Maimane. News24