Brother International‘s new inkjet Multi-Function Centre features a new Refill Tank System, introducing low-cost ink bottles with ultra-high 6000# page-yield for black ink and up to 5000# page-yield for colour inks, and a smart design that takes the hassle out of ink refilling. The 3-in-1 DCP-T500W inkjet Multi-Function Centre is aimed at high print volume users who appreciate bigger savings, while Brother’s new DCP-T500W features highly affordable 6000 page-yield# for black ink, which helps users enjoy lower running costs. Plus, with Brother’s affordable original refill ink, users minimise the risk of print head damage that arises from using non-official ink. This in turn reduces repair and replacement costs. Its ultra-high yield ink bottles also let users make less frequent ink purchases and enjoy added convenience. In addition, the DCP-T500W showcases a smart design that helps users simplify the ink refilling process. Firstly, its ink tank cover is conveniently located at the front of the Multi-Function Centre, which allows for easy access to the ink tank, and makes ink refilling effortless for users. Secondly, the embedded ink tank features a see-through cover at the front, which makes it easy for users to check how much ink is left. The embedded ink tank design also frees up precious desktop space. The embedded ink tank design also frees up precious desktop space. Furthermore, the new DCP-T500W’s smart design allows for ink refilling at an optimised 45-degree refill angle. This minimises ink leakage, reduces staining, and makes ink refilling a more user-friendly experience. This minimises ink leakage, reduces staining, and makes ink refilling a more user-friendly experience. Last but not least, the new model improves work productivity with its range of essential functions. Users may also save resources and share the Multi-Function Centre with a number of users conveniently through Wireless LAN. Users may also save resources and share the Multi-Function Centre with a number of users conveniently through Wireless LAN. In addition, fast print speeds of up to 12 pages monochrome and 10 colour pages per minute (based on ISO/IEC 24734) are suited for high print volume users who value efficiency. Moreover, with paper tray of up to 100-sheet capacity, users avoid frequent replenishment of paper. “At Brother, we understand customers are often seeking affordable ink when it comes to printing. “Whether you’re a personal user, or business user printing from small office home office (SOHO) or small business environment, our competitively-priced ultra-high 6000 page-yield# ink meets the need for low running cost.” says Dale de Villiers, marketing manager at Brother South Africa. “What’s more, with our smart design, our customers benefit from an easy and hassle-free ink refilling experience.” Brother’s new inkjet Multi-Function Centre will be available from December 2016. For more information about Brother, visit www.brother.co.za This article was published in partnership with Brother International.