Samsung’s slimmer, lighter Gear Fit2 GPS sports band with a flexible AMOLED display to comfortably wrap around your wrist, is designed with consumers’ fitness needs in mind. The stylish Samsung Gear Fit2 provides accurate activity tracking and make workouts more enjoyable with a combination of sensors, a standalone GPS and heart rate monitor to track your activities, including distance, pace and route. The smart device allows you to leave your phone at home and automatically detects 15 different actions such as walking, running, cycling, treadmill and pilates. It also displays animations to illustrate proper training techniques and provide feedback at set intervals during training sessions. You are able to check your performance and trends with your Gear Fit2 or your smartphone, as well as share your activity data on Facebook. Craige Fleischer, Director of Integrated Mobility at Samsung Electronics South Africa, says: “The appetite for aesthetically designed, yet practical and smart wearable devices is growing globally as consumers look beyond their phones to improve their everyday activities. Samsung Electronics meets these demands with the Gear Fit2, the modern personal coach.” Gear Fit2’s more comfortable fit and stylish new design in three fashion-forward colours (black, blue and pink) and the large and small strap variants make it the ideal healthy living companion for everyone. Its easy-to-use interface, lets you move through information screens with just a few simple swipes. You can monitor your workout progress, check the time, view notifications from your smartphone, respond to texts or even listen to your music tracks directly off the Gear Fit2 sports band. The Gear Fit2’s display is easy to read, even in bright sunlight and its water and dust resistance (IP68) rating, ensures premium protection in more rugged environments. Integrated with Samsung’s S Health application, the Gear Fit2 offers more features and functions to make exercise entertaining and goals more attainable. S Health v.4.8 adds an element of competition to your active routine with one-on-one and group challenges, leaderboard function and individual progress tracking. “The chic design, comfortable fit and enhanced features of the Gear Fit2 make it the perfect fitness wearable for everyone from casual exercisers to sports fanatics. Plus, its integrated GPS, built-in storage and music player add new dimensions to training,” Fleischer concludes. For more information about the new Gear Fit2, go to http://www.samsung.com/global/galaxy/gear-fit2/. This article was published in partnership with Samsung.