Being connected has enabled us to change the way we shop, pay our accounts, communicate with one another and carry out our daily jobs. The way we did things 5 years ago has evolved substantially, especially if we look at improved efficiency, however, South Africa still has great strides to take in the development of our ICT infrastructure and services. There are a number of small businesses in South Africa who have innovative tech solutions that could potentially change the way we do things and help us overcome challenges in our communities. These small businesses need support and development to help them build out their solutions and make them become a reality. A number of corporates in South Africa are committed to developing small ICT businesses and have partnered with Raizcorp in order to do so. Maebela Legacy Networks is an example of a small ICT business that really shifted after they were sponsored by Sentech to be on a business growth programme. Mohlolo and his brother identified a business opportunity and went for it in 2011. They were I.T. technicians at the time with the necessary technical skills, in theory, and they understood what it took to run a business, however, they lacked business sense in general. Their business eventually reached a point where it was not doing as well as it could have been because they didn’t understand how to make their business work for them. Things really turned around for Maebela Legacy Networks when the brothers joined a Raizcorp business growth programme. First and foremost, the invaluable business acumen which they gained improved their overall understanding of business. They better understood how to approach it and how to sell it. The sales knowledge they gained was even more invaluable because they learnt how to define their USPs and to achieve what they wanted. These changes had a powerful impact on their business. “I cannot emphasise enough, the value we have received, both personally and from a business perspective. To me, the business growth programme is so much more than just a ‘school’. It is more of an individual development programme and it caters for my individual needs. I would like my Corporate Sponsor and Raizcorp to know that this programme has really made a difference in our lives, and if I had another opportunity to go back, I would not hesitate,” says Mohlolo Maebela. If we don’t support and develop small ICT businesses in South Africa – like Maebela Legacy Networks – we’ll be unable to effectively drive economic growth, our systems will become archaic, and business won’t be agile enough to keep up with global trends and innovations – or even be able to keep their doors open. As part of our drive to develop South Africa’s ICT sector, Raizcorp would like to encourage small ICT businesses to apply to join one of our sponsored business growth programmes that will be launching in January 2017. As part of our business growth programme, entrepreneurs will have access to finance institutions, markets, entrepreneurial learning, and business guidance to name a few. These are all vital to make a business a success. To apply for this opportunity of a lifetime click here. This article was published in partnership with Raizcorp.