The toughest part of getting fit is always finding the motivation to get started. Technologies like Samsung’s Gear Fit2 and Gear IconX ear buds are enabling users to create a new mind-set, by encouraging them to become and remain active. Wearable devices provides features to track and monitor activities in order to encourage users to set and achieve fitness goals. The Gear Fit2 sports band features an embedded GPS and a heart rate monitor that offers accurate and robust tracking and measurement and provides instant feedback on the user’s workout. “It is a real workout motivator, one that is able to auto-detect and track steps, calories and sleep. “Furthermore, it is capable of recognising when the user is doing multiple fitness indoor or outdoor activities such as squats, hiking, cycling, stair stepping, stationary biking, elliptical training, treadmill running, rowing, lunges or crunches,” explains Craige Fleischer, Director of Integrated Mobility at Samsung Electronics South Africa. The Gear IconX cord-free earbuds, which not only supply smooth sound, but also track data such as duration and heart rate through the S-Health App on your smartphone, is another fitness wearable to encourage an active lifestyle. Besides the physical sight of the device that helps to encourage exercise, social features also provide incentive, by enabling the user to connect to fellow health enthusiasts via social media. These connections motivate improved fitness, simply by the fact that users now have a network of friends who can view their daily progress, or lack thereof. With solutions like the Gear IconX earbuds and the Gear Fit2, it is clear that wearable technologies are creating a revolution in fitness. Wearable devices are encouraging consumers to become and remain healthy and active. “Based on our “Make it Meaningful” design ethos, we develop products that enable people to interact with technology in new ways. Our range of fitness wearable devices provide seamless experiences and help users with their daily lives. Everyone tends to aim higher when there is motivation involved, so having a physical reminder constantly present on your body should provide the best incentive of all,” concludes Fleischer. The Recommended Retail Price (RRP) for the Gear Fit2 is R3,999 and for the Gear IconX R3,499. This article was published in partnership with Samsung.