ESET is offering 30% its Multi-Device Security, which offers comprehensive internet security for your PC, Mac and Android devices. According to ESET, there are currently 6.4 billion connected devices globally, and this is expected to grow to 20.8 billion by 2021, which represents significant opportunities for hackers. ESET revealed that 60% of data breaches are due to due to Malware, with a 600% increase of Ransomware Malware variants in the past year and 23,00 to 35,000 threats globally per month. “The growth of Ransomware is significant because this is the first time Malware is actually able to make money, with an estimated $1 billion revenue,” ESET said. To protect your connected devices, ESET offers a variety of security solutions for PC, Mac and Android devices. ESET Smart Security Premium 10 offers ultimate multi-layered antimalware protection for all Internet users, built on ESET’s trademark best replace of detection, speed and usability. With this option, you get to enjoy all the protection that ESET has to offer. As well as award-winning ESET Antivirus and Antispyware, you can generate and store ultra-secure passwords simply and easily, encrypt your USB storage devices, protect your webcam from misuse and easily check the security of your home Wi-Fi router. You can also bank and pay online more safely using ESET’s special secure browser window, and locate and secure your missing laptop. All-new ESET Internet Security 10 delivers rock-solid multi-layered antimalware protection for everyday web users, built on ESET’s trademark best replace of detection, speed and usability. As well as award-winning ESET Antivirus and Antispyware, and ESET’s personal firewall, you can protect your webcam from misuse, check the security of your home Wi-Fi router, manage your kids’ online adventures, and bank online more safely using ESET’s special secure browser window. Meanwhile, Exploit Blocker is designed to detect and defeat ransomware and lockscreen attacks. Like all ESET products, ESET Internet Security 10 is fully compatible with Windows 10, and protects your PC from script-based attacks. With the legendary ESET NOD32 engine at its core, ESET NOD32 Antivirus provides essential defense against malware, built on ESET’s trademark best replace of detection, speed and usability. As well as award-winning ESET Antivirus and Antispyware, it offers Gamer Mode for lightweight protection while gaming, and the latest edition includes a host of under-the-hood improvements. Its Exploit Blocker feature is designed to detect and defeat ransomware and lockscreen attacks. Like all ESET products, ESET NOD32 Antivirus 10 is fully compatible with Windows 10, and protects your PC from script-based attacks. For more information, visit the ESET website. This article was published in partnership with ESET.