Telkom CEO Sipho Maseko recently told Business Times that ICASA is biased in favour of Vodacom and MTN and wants to further entrench their domination of the broadband market. He said that “those with spectrum should not get more of what they have” and that the playing field should be equalised. Maseko’s comments are not unexpected. Telkom has been fighting hard to compete against Vodacom and MTN – which have established national mobile networks. However, it is ironic that a company which has been afforded a government-protected monopoly is now complaining about a lack of competition. Telkom was built on having a telecoms monopoly and it even tried to gain monopolistic control over South Africa’s Internet in the mid-nineties. It was standard for Telkom to fight against opening the South African telecoms and broadband market, and it often threatened ICASA if it tried to introduce competition. Because of the fixed-line exclusivity it enjoyed for many years, Telkom has a huge advantage over any competitor in the fixed-broadband market. No company comes close to Telkom in terms of fixed-broadband connections in South Africa or national fibre infrastructure. But the telecoms market has moved on and mobile broadband is now the place to be. Here, Telkom is the new kid on the block. Telkom has moved from the monopoly in the fixed-line market to the “disruptor” in the mobile market. Its FreeMe packages are a good example. The data-centric products, which offer free Telkom calls and free WhatsApp traffic, are attracting mobile users to the network. Maseko’s comments clearly show how the telecommunications market has changed, where Telkom went from the dominant player to the “small guy” fighting the “duopoly”. Telkom’s established fixed-line network is still a tremendous asset, but in a world where smartphones dominate, mobile services are where the money is. You can therefore expect more attacks on Vodacom and MTN from Telkom and Cell C as they try to grow their subscriber base.