Here’s how easy it is to download series and movies with ShowMax and keep watching even when you don’t have an internet connection. With ShowMax you can download your favourite shows and movies using the ShowMax App on iOS and Android phones and tablets, and watch them later when you don’t have an internet connection. This is ideal for long road trips, flights or when you’re stuck in the bush with no internet. Everything on ShowMax is available to download – from Game of Thrones to Silicon Valley. Download a combined total of 25 TV shows and movies and keep them for up to 30 days. Once viewing of a show or movie has started, you have a 48-hour window to finish watching it. Watch downloaded content as many times as you like within 48 hours of starting the first playback. The same content can be downloaded again if needed – like your child’s favourite Shaun the Sheep episode. To view your downloaded content, you need to make sure that you are signed in. You will then be taken directly to your downloaded content in the download manager when you launch the app, and can view it offline. When you are in the process of downloading content, and you would like to minimise the app, your downloads will continue in the background, ready for you to watch when you are. If you do have to download on holiday, take advantage of night time specials to get the best bang for your data bundle. Downloads are available in four different quality settings: low, good, high, and super high. A 30-minute show will use around 100MB on the lowest setting and up to about 500MB on super high quality. If you’re watching on a 5-inch phone, the lowest setting is more than sufficient. There are more than 35 000 episodes, movies, documentaries and kids shows on ShowMax. Check out some cool new shows coming up in December – perfect for the holidays.      ShowMax currently offers a 14-day free  trial. Cancel any time before the trial ends and you won’t be charged a cent. Sign up for ShowMax now.  This article was published in partnership with ShowMax.